---
layout: post
category : Chapter 13
title: Dear God this Hurts
tagline:
tags : []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

This is my morning prayer, lately:

Dear God this hurts, and it is not fun. Will you please make me a little blind so that I can buy a pair of tortoise shell glasses and look dope ass sexy for the ladies. Help me understand what the future brings for me. Morality feels subjective and that's not something I'm comfortable with. Which will improve my life more dramatically: being vegan or not eating the small bag of Doritos I get at Taco Bell will a combo meal?

Oh dear reader: 
Had it not occurred to you that a secular Mormon might think to pray? Did you not think I’ve asked God about the decisions I’m making? Did you not think I’m seeking after truth just as you are? Perhaps not using the same instruments, but certainly in much the same way. Do you think I saw a fork in the road and said, you know that way looks a lot easier? Walking the devil’s path seems like a lot of fun. I would love to have my name slandered amongst friends. I would love to have my best friend of five years stop spending time with me.

It's really hard to give up on something that comes easy to you. It's a lot like paddling upstream. I stop and ask myself, often, "why am I doing this? Wasn't the other direction way easier?" 

And it was easier then. I was doing the right thing, and I was doing it well, and I was happy. I'm so busy paddling that I've lost time and energy for  sentiment and nostalgia. Now I find myself sobbing at my desk at work, over sentimentalizing my relationship with my chickens or some shit like that.

It's like someone died and you missed your last chance to have a laugh with them. It felt like the last goodbye to something unimaginably valuable to me. But some days I still have God, and for the most part that is the same. For lost to me is not my God, but my people. And that is my greatest pain.