---
layout: post
category : Chapter 20
title: Dad
tagline:
tags : []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

My earliest memories have airplanes in them. I vaguely remember standing out on a tarmac, looking directly at a pair of Navy issue black boots, laced up to dad's mid calf. Dad smelled like leather, sweat, and original scent Old Spice. Dad stood like a mountain cutting through whispy clouds. The boots reminded me of my G.I. Joe action figure named Outback. Outback was closely favorited over Raphael for his bendable joints, his bright red beard, and his army issue boots that reminded me of dad's. Mom told me I would probably look like action when I got older, and that was fun to think about. When I got older and wore a green jumper and black boots like dad, I would look like an action figure. 

This gave me a little competitive leverage against Ken, who believed he would grow up to look like the Street Fighter character who shared his name. I often wondered how much more often I would beat Ken in Street Fighter if I could play as Outback.

Dad was a natural athelete. He probably wouldn't say so. He would probably chaulk up all his talent as practice and routine. He has little rules that accompany every sport that he follows as law: never double fault, never leave an open frame, etc. He only bowls about once a year on his birthday, and still manages to beat everyone in the family.

Dad would bring us to his baseball games and buy us bags of sunflower seeds at the concession stand and tell us not to touch the beer bottle caps that littered the parking lot and beneath the bleachers. I liked the strong taste of salt, but didn't like seeds or shells. So I would suck on the unshelled seeds until they lost their taste, then spit them behind my like my brother did. Dad caught me doing this one game after examining the remains and seeing the obvious clumps of whole seeds. He said he wouldn't buy them anymore if we were going to be wasteful. I think I opted for the Laughy Taffy from the concessions thereafter. When I was thirteen, I worked at a baseball concession stand for about three hours before getting fired for stealing three dollars from the cash in front of a customer.

I think we were good kids. I don't remember mom coming often, and I think Ken and I sat respectably, alone, for the entirety of most games. We practiced swear words behind the little dugout made of cinder blocks painted egg shell white and filled with Dad's colleages and friends.

Yes, you and I, we were going to be astronauts in we grew up. But you would settle for that attainable job in the Marketting department of a grocery chain and I would settle for that attainable job as pitcher for the Baltimore Orioles. Dad's friend Vic wore a knee brace—which is probably what kept him from the big game. I didn't know what dad's story was, but I remember thinking it might have something to do with being Mormon and playing games on Sundays.

I've played soccer in an adult league for the last couple years, a habit I reluctantly picked up from my wife, Claire. I play mid-field because I have no coordination for the sport and rely entirely on can-do-attitude and adult competitive gumption. On games when I score a goal, my longtime teammate Trevor will comment on the gruff grunt I always offer when I boot a goal. We usually laugh at how inconsistent it is with my personality. But the grunt is dad's grunt.

-------

When I moved to Santa Clara, I started running after the sun had set. It's cooler, there are fewer cars, and it saves me from waking up early. I don't run more than a couple miles each night—just enough to burn the calories of a can of soda. Even still

I spent a lot of my time in Nova Scotia chopping wood. A lot of the houses have a wood burning furnace—and it's pretty common to be communal about gathering to split one another's fire wood. It was 70 degrees out, I was 19, 5'10", and about 150 pounds sopping with sweat. Pete Ripple pulled me by my elbow and sat me on a log, drink in hand. He smirked through telling me I needn't strain myself. I played Junior Varsity number 2 doubles on Riverton High School's tennis team, which should mean I'm in pretty good shape. I spend most of my time indoors, considered myself to be in shape. 

Dad used to say, "it isn't a workout until you sweat". He'd take Ken and I to the gym a few times a week, where I'd sit on the elliptical and watching episodes of Aqua Teen Hunger Force on the 2" screen of my iPod Video. At the end he'd give his judgement on our workout based on the sweat around our knecks or the droplets on our brows. Reasonably so, I don't think I was ever up to par.

I talked to mom about splitting wood it on the phone, a few months later. She said, "well, you are a Benson." I later pieced together that this was the most well intended explanation she could offer—and probably the reason why dad champions sweating. Adult Bensons sweat damn near constantly.

At about 60 degrees out, I am 28, 5'10", and 165 pounds sopping with sweat. I pull my drenched shirt over my head as I walk into the shower. Looking down at my sweaty, naked, body I'm reminded that this is my dad's body. This is the body I remember that would come home from a run, late at night, Walkman in hand, smelling like salt, old spice, and brush fire. The chest hair pattern and color, my thinning head of hair, the way fat stores around my belly, and my long thin arms. The way he would chase us around the house, threatening to hug us, all covered in sweat.

Dad ran little lengths around the neighborhood for quiet a few years before my sister Alyssa and I adopted it and made it cool. 

When I was I mission I didn't miss my dad at all.

-------

Dad always had interesting taste in food. He's hated cheese and milk for as long as I can remember but some of his favorite snacks include Vienna sausages canned mandarin oranges and Kiper snacks. He has his conventional, his go tos, like everybody else. But it's the eccentricities that I seem to remember most fondly. He took us hiking when I was only nine years old up to the top of Mount Timpanogus. I remember that he packed all of the snacks. I assumed that time that his idea of a snack was the same as the general definition of a snack. The definition that I had been taught by mom and was corroborated by every other human being I had ever met. Boy was I pleasantly surprised about 4 miles into the fifteen mile hike to find the dad definition of a snack included canned meat, with a garnish of trail mix. What seven-year-old appreciates diluted M&Ms? No thanks, I'll just take the good stuff you don't have to pad it down with garbage. Seven M&Ms was hardly enough to be considered a snack.

-------


-------

We were in the middle of one of mom's famous Come to Jesus meetings. Mom was leaving us at the house with dad for the week, abandoning us, with the explicit instruction that we were to spend time with dad. This was a last ditch solution. She would be spending the week with her parents, about a half hour's drive away. Mom's physics looked like this: the vacuum produced by her absense would bring us together, I guess. I think we all wondered: what would our relationships look like independent of her? 

For a while there, Dad was a stay at home type of dad. Dad was unemployed from when I was eleven to thirteen. He would have rather been working at that time, I think. I remember overhearing some of the loud conversations he and Mom had as job interviews passed.

He was a good dad during that time, inspite of insecurities that I'm theorizing existed. He was good in ways that I have missed in him since: he was focused, and he was present. He took on a paper route to teach my brother Ken and I the value of money. I remember his large frame, in the doorway of the warm white room Ken and I shared, waking us with urgency. I wore my 4:30 mornings as a matter of pride among my schoolfriends. Our hands get black with ink as we help him roll the papers, we sneeze with the smell of hot newsprint, and we struggle to keep our eyes open between houses. On Saturdays we go out for breakfast at the Village Inn were I now go for midnight meals with friends from college.

Only two of us still lived at home, so the rest of us were brought in for this one time event that I decided to name: Let the Kids Fix Our Marriage.

Claire was pretty proactive about the whole experience. After two years of marriage, she was the closest to understanding what it was like to be Kenyon Benson Jr.'s son.

"I want you to communicate with Dad. This is very important to me. Our relationship will not last if he doesn't learn to communicate with his children."

Claire piped up from behind the small notebook where she was scribbling ideas, "is there anything you want us to talk with him about?"

"Claire, just be honest. If he's avoiding you, call him out on it."

-------

I had the occasion, tonight, to see my little brother Mark become just a little more defined as a man. I’m grateful that God above let me be witness to such a sad and beautiful milestone in his young life.

While staying over the night at my parent’s house, Mark and I took the dog out to pee just before going to bed. He quickly and quietly pointed out a woodpecker, to me, perched near the door, asleep. He ran to get his bb gun while explaining that mom and dad had commissioned him to kill it, should he see it.

Sidebar: have you ever seen a woodpecker? They are extraordinarily beautiful.

As he readied the gun, I stood anxiously by the window, not knowing what to expect. Me: the boy who cried the first time he caught a fish; the boy who sobbed until he shook while gutting that fish; the man who was racked with guilt when he accidentally hit his dog in the eye with a tennis ball, last week. As an older brother, how should I represent myself? The marvel of the beautiful bird stood between my morals and my mouth. Conscious decision or not, I watched my thirteen year old brother as he shot the bird and watched it fall. I watched as he turned to me in shock, his face flush, and his eyes honest. The bird flopped and it turned, trying as well as a bird might with a piece of metal lodged somewhere in its chest.

There was sadness in his young eyes, but he had not seen it yet. He shot the bird again, for good measure, and with haste reported the news to dad. After surveying the scene, dad gave Mark a high five and asked him to clean up the mess before going to bed. I stayed inside and did my best to calm the dog after all the excitement, and Mark went back out with some newspaper.

When he came back inside his flush face was now set deep into the contrast of pale and purple tones. The bird was not dead, and he hoped to have my advice on the next step. The bird, now standing, looked just as magnificent as Mark looked afraid. Showing my inability to acknowledge emotion, once more, I advised that he let the bird find a place to die on its own. Mark, reminding me of his tender age, asked, “do you think it’s in pain?”

I saw his posture before I saw his face as he slouched back inside after shooting the bird for a third time. He shook violently as the reality of the crime sunk in.

The shame of a young boy, making masculine decisions encouraged by ridiculous culture, is heart wrenching. Those eyes, those eyes that I’ve known for as long as he has, have never looked so deep and stripped of hope. How I tried to hold him and how I tried to tell him that he was right to feel pain. But what is my voice against the many who insist contrary? What is my voice against Call of Duty, MTV mutilation culture, or the senselessly homophobic male role models that will taunt him with emotionless, passionless, and sexist living until the day he dies?

As I pulled his head against my shoulder and felt his frail figure shake, I was filled with immense appreciation for a God who gave a little boy an older brother. I can’t keep him from being manipulated by this awful masculine factory, but in this moment I can hug him; in this moment I can cry with him; in this moment I can remember that I once was him. And maybe the next time he feels like he needs to throw his voice a little lower on the phone, or say something degrading amongst his friends, he’ll have this moment to fend off that ever present masculine pressure.

But most of all, maybe we can all remember that moment when we drew a line in the sand and decided that we would not be participating in killing, or insulting, or suppressing. No, it’s not as simple as it used to be. Yet, in this moment, it all seemed within reach. And God providing, I hope I turn out to be the man that Mark became today.




